lab1
    Write a graphics program to display Circle, ellipse, lines (parallel and
    perpendicular to each other), concentric circles, etc





lab2
    Write a graphics program to display Circle, ellipse, lines (parallel and
    perpendicular to each other), concentric circles, etc





lab3
    Problem 1: The Parametric Circle Generator
        Task: Write an OpenGL program that renders a solid, filled circle.
        Requirements:
        1.	Mathematical Approach: Use the parametric equations x = r \cdot \cos(\theta) and y = r \cdot \sin(\theta) to generate vertex data.
        2.	Dynamic Segments: Your implementation should allow a variable int segments to define how many vertices are used.
        3.	Primitive Choice: Use GL_TRIANGLE_FAN to render the circle. Ensure the first vertex is the center (0, 0, 0).
        4.	Interactive Feature:
            ○	Press the UP arrow key to increase the number of segments (making it smoother).
            ○	Press the DOWN arrow key to decrease segments (observing how it eventually looks like a hexagon, square, or triangle).
        5.	Coloring: The center vertex should be one color (e.g., Red) and the perimeter vertices should be another color (e.g., Blue), creating a gradient effect.
    Problem 2: The Adjustable Ellipse & Aspect Ratio
        Task: Create a program that renders an ellipse and maintains its proportions during window resizing.
        Requirements:
        1.	The Ellipse Formula: Modify your circle generator to use separate radii for X and Y (Semi-major a and Semi-minor b).
        2.	User Input: Use keyboard inputs to allow the user to increase/decrease the width (a) and height (b) of the ellipse independently.
        3.	Aspect Ratio Correction: * Implement a Projection Matrix (or modify your vertex shader) to ensure that if a = b, the shape appears as a perfect circle regardless of whether the window is a wide rectangle or a tall one.
            ○	Without this correction, resizing the window should visibly "stretch" the ellipse; with it, the ellipse should remain consistent.
        4.	Boundary Box (Optional/Bonus): Render a GL_LINE_LOOP rectangle that perfectly bounds the ellipse to demonstrate your understanding of its spatial limits.





LAB4
    Question 1: Geometric Composition (The "Delivery Truck")
    Objective: Test understanding of coordinate systems, primitive shapes and color filling.
    Problem Statement: Write a C/C++ program to draw a 2D side-view of a "Delivery Truck".
        Requirements:
        1. Body: Draw a rectangular cargo area filled with Blue.
        2. Cabin: Draw a square driver's cabin attached to the front filled with Red.
        3. Wheels: Draw two circles at the bottom filled with Dark Gray.
        4. Road: Draw a line beneath the wheels.
        5. Text: Add the label "CG LAB" inside the cargo area in White.

    Question 2: Loops and Logic (The "Archery Target")
    Objective: Test the use of loops, concentric geometry and mathematical centering.
    Problem Statement: Write a C/C++ program to draw a standard 5-ring Archery Target in
    the center of the screen. You must use a loop to generate the rings efficiently rather than
    writing 5 separate blocks of code.
        Requirements:
        1. Geometry: Draw 5 concentric circles (sharing the same center point).
        2. Colors: The rings must be filled with the following standard archery colors (from outer to
        inner):
            ○ White (Outer ring)
            ○ Black
            ○ Blue
            ○ Red
            ○ Yellow (Center Bullseye)
        3. Logic: Start with the largest radius and decrease the radius by a fixed amount (e.g., 30
        pixels) in each iteration of the loop.
        4. Scoring: (Optional) Display the score values (10, 20, 30, 40, 50) inside the respective
        rings.
        Hint:
            ● Use arrays to store the color codes.
            ● Remember that when painting overlapping shapes, you must draw the largest shape first
        and the smallest shape last.






lab5
    1.To implement the various 2D transformations like translation, scaling, rotation, shearing.
    2.Write a C-program for performing the basic transformations such as translation, Scaling, Rotation for a given 3D object.



lab6
    1. Write a program to input a line (two end points) and a window (position of below left point and above right point) and clip the line with respect to the window using Cohen Sutherland Algorithm. Show all the conditions:
        (a) line presents completely inside the window
        (b) line presents completely outside the window
        (c) line intersects the window boundary.
    2. Implement Liang Barsky line clipping Algorithm. The clipping window is a rectangle having coordinates, X_min=2, X_max=4, Y_min=2 and Y_max=4.
    Check you program for each cases.
    3. Implement Bresenham’s Line drawing algorithm for all types of slope.
    4. Create and rotate a triangle about the origin and a fixed point.
    5. Program to draw a color cube and allow the user to move the camera suitably to experiment with perspective viewing.
    6. Program to animate a flag using Bezier curve algorithm.
    7. Write a program to implement to clip a polygon using Cohen-Sutherland – Hodgeman algorithm



gcc program.c -o program -lfreeglut -lglu32 -lopengl32
program.exe